here and Mr fit is absent okay we need
to certify and related action items from
closed so
move roll call please Mr Burton I Mr
Henderson i m marck Mr M yes Mr Moon Mr
do okay the first
item we have a motion to approve the
release from compulsory attendance for
three
students I make a motion
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton hi Mr Henderson hi M Mar Mr Ms
yes Mr Moon Mr do Mr fit absent next
motion is to approve the release from
compuls attendance for one student based
on religious
exemption motion second any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton I Mr
Henderson i m Meritt Mr Ms yes Mr Moon
Mr do Mr fit is absent next motion is to
approve the waiver of Schoolboard policy
gbo DPC retirement for Mr Derek Hall to
allow him to retire under the early
retirement incentive program effective
December
3123 I make a motion second any
discussion roll call please Mr Burton I
Mr Henderson M Mar Mr Ms yes Mr Moon Mr
D Mr is absent next motion is to approve
the paid administrative leave for a
classified staff member as
discussed motion second any discussion
roll call Mr Burton I Mr Henderson hi M
mck Mr Ms yes Mr Moon hi Mr do hi Mr fit
is absent motion to approve the
Personnel changes for December 12 2023
is
presented motion
second any discussion roll call please
Mr Burton Mr Henderson M marck Mr Ms yes
Mr Moon Mr do Mr
bit that it again I want to welcome
y'all to the dmba meeting I also want
y'all to know that this will be Mr
Burton's last meeting he is retiring
after 29 and a half years we will be
doing something a little later this
evening to discuss that with Mr Burton
um but I did want while yall some of
y'all still here you probably leave
before the end of the night to know that
this is his last one and his replacement
sitting on the front over here it's good
to see you and we look forward to
starting the new year in
January all right any any additions to
the agenda Dr Jones yes sir so I have a
motion to approve the agenda so moved
second any
discussion roll call please Mr Burton hi
Mr Henderson hi M Mar hi Mr Mills yes
yes Mr Moon Mr dos Mr f is ABS consent
agenda move we
approve I'm going ask that we approve
one to three and then we'll approve four
and five separate since it is uh putting
Des KN as if that's okay with y'all so
if this time will approve consent agenda
1 through3 that a motion second right
yes sir roll call please Mr Burton I Mr
Henderson I M marck Mr Ms yes Mr Moon Mr
dos Mr f is absent so approval of the
design needs and absence of the
superintendent you had in your packet
the list of those and it's assistant
superintendent so I have a motion to
approve them so
move any discussion roll call
please Mr Burton I Mr F I'm sorry M Mr
Henderson yes M marck Mr Mills yes Mr
Moon Mr uh Mr F and then we need to
approve the doign need to represent the
school system in the absence of the
superintendent I think that's Mr M
you second I have a motion and a second
any discussion on that roll call please
Mr Burton I Mr Henderson m m Mr Ms yes
Mr Moon yes Mr D yes Mr fit is okay this
time I'd like to open a public hearing
to hear comments relative to sale of
some Surplus property off of Route 40
West in the C's Greta District it's
about one acre and it's inde deed book
68 page 427 I open the public hearing 7
705 is anyone here wishes to speak to
that
anybody if not then I'll close the
public
hearing at
7:05
next we're going to do our public
presentations first we're going to
recognize some students Miss Penny are
you going to do them all yes sir
okay
good evening chairman do school board
members and Dr Jones it is my pleasure
to recognize students this evening from
one student from chadam high school and
25 students from tons High School in the
categories of FFA and beta we will begin
with chadam high
school here on behalf of the principal
princi Mr Jason Reese is Mrs Angela
andrepont assistant principal and Jason
in
sponsor this first award is presented to
Nathan
Paris it reads
this certificate of excellence is
presented to Nathan Paris in recognition
and appreciation for outstanding
achievement for placing first in Agri
science poster contest at the Virginia
State Fair granted this 13th day of
November 20123 by the Pennsylvania
County School Board Calvin daw's
chairman Kelly Merrick's Vice
chair thank you
[Applause]
congratulations
Nathan now we will have recognitions
from tuno high
school principal Mr Brian
BS and Dr Jessica Jones sponsor
and we also have our director of
secondary schools present Mrs Elizabeth
Craig the first student to be recognized
is Jezebel
Taylor this certificate of excellence is
presented to Jessel Taylor in
recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for placing
first in horiculture demonstration at
the Virginia State Fair granted this
13th day of November 2023 by the
Pennsylvania County School Board Calvin
Do's chairman Kelly Merck's Vice
chair and also to Jessel Taylor for
placing second in Agri science research
at the Virginia state
[Applause]
fa and one with her two
certificates
she had
to
congratulations our next student to be
recognized and you may be SE and we're
still recognizing students from ton high
school so you all stay up here each
student will come up individually
they're
okay the next student to be recognized
is Carter
heffinger placing third in landscaping
demonstration at the Virginia State
Fair next is Casey dicks placing first
in the tire art team at the Virginia
State
Fair
Chloe dicks placing first entire art
team at the Virginia State
Fair
Carter heer placing first in the entire
art team at the Virginia state
fair grace Jackson placing first in the
tire art team at the Virginia State
[Applause]
Fair
Kaitlyn Knight placing first in the tire
art team at the Virginia State Fair
Carter lip for placing first in the tire
art team at the Virginia State
Fair Haley Robertson placing first in
the tire art team at the Virginia State
Fair
[Applause]
congratulations Juan Rodriguez placing
first first in the tire art team at the
Virginia State
Fair Lake swiger placing first in the
tire art team at the Virginia State
[Applause]
Fair
yes we
will Kaitlyn Knight placing first in the
tire art competition team at the
Virginia state Bayer
[Applause]
Jezebel Taylor placing first in the tire
art team at the Virginia State
[Applause]
Fair
thank you and congratulations
congratulations to all of our FFA
student recognitions thank you
doens next we will have beta
recognitions from Tonto High
School Tara Mills and Jennifer Watson
sponsors
the first beta recognition this
certificate of excellence is presented
to Denver Dalton in recognition and
appreciation for outstanding achievement
for being a finalist at the beta
Regional leadership conference and
project proposal granted this 13th day
of November 2023 December
by the Pennsylvania County School Board
calind Do's chairman Kelly Merrick's
Vice
[Applause]
chair Clara Ms finalist at the beta
Regional leadership conference in
Regional
proposal project
[Applause]
proposal
we
go
Parker Sinclair finalist at the beta
Regional leadership conference and
project
proposal sha for bows finalist at the
beta Regional leadership conference in
the lead outside the box
competition
something Shady about this
one
congratulations
Mary gamon finalist at the beta Regional
leadership conference and the lead
outside the box
[Applause]
competition
congratulations Robert Rosman I fourth
finalist at the beta Regional leadership
conference in the lead outside the box
competition hiy cassida finalist at the
beta Regional leadership conference and
collaboration
connection Bobby Jean French finalist at
the beta Regional leadership conference
in collaboration connect
ction Hunter
Mills finalist at the beta Regional
leadership conference in collaboration
[Applause]
connection
congratulations Sydney pritet finalist
at the beta Regional leadership
conference and collaboration
connection Parker Sinclair finalist at
the beta Regional leadership conference
and collaboration
connection Chan ER snow finalist in the
beta Regional leadership conference in
collaboration
[Applause]
connection
congratulations to our beta students and
congratulations to all students
recognized this evening thank
[Applause]
you congratulations to all the students
it's always an honor for the school
board to get to recognize the students
for their achievement and to have that
many here tonight certainly a pleasure
so I want to thank all y'all and
sponsors for all y'all's hard
work wait just a second before we move
on so up next we're going to have the
courtesy word the character word of the
month which is courtesy Miss Hope from
tum
High good evening Dr Jones chairman Doss
and distinguished members of the board
and community members my name is hi Holt
and I'm the school board representative
for tunel high school this evening I
have been given the opportunity of
speaking on December's character word of
the month courtesy what is courtesy the
Oxford dictionary defines courtesy as
polite behavior that shows respect for
other people to me courtesy is showing
kindness in one's daily life to be
courteous is to make the people around
you feel appreciated and
worthy as Christmas approaches there's
no greater time of year to remember and
show courtesy while treating everyone
even those who are not always kind to us
with courtesy is not always easy it is
always worth it this time of year
everything to get pushed under the rug
amidst all the hustle and bustle of the
holidays that is exactly why showing
courtesy is so important as the winter
season continues showing courtesy and
treating people with kindness is the
best way to spread love and kindness to
those who need it most because while you
cannot always tell when people are
hurting you can always make their day
better by just sharing a smile or a kind
word by being the light others need in
their life I urge you all to show show
kindness and be courteous for these
final weeks of December thank you and
happy holidays
thank you Miss
H next is the Pennsylvania Education
Association I always call the other Dr
Jones good evening good
evening so I see you real proud all your
students were here tonight I am I am
very very youthful young people I tell
you we spend a lot of time on the road
uh back and forth to the state fair I
want to public say thank you to the
Department of Transportation that we
have Mr Scott and his crew phenomenal
job thank you thank you for helping
support us and get us there um so it a
lot a lot I think out of the six or
seven there six seven attempts that we
went and these young people made good on
each each and every one of them and I'm
proud of them for that um and they
continue to just amaze me tomorrow we
got our Christmas party all of y'all
invited to come and participate we even
have a cake off so if you got a sweet
tooth come on with it you get to have
some wear and maybe even choose who our
first ciof winner will be for an annual
event maybe for the future thank you
you're welcome um I do want to say uh
thank you and I'll start off by saying
thank you to Mr
Burton um for your service to
Pennsylvania County schools and the
Pennsylvania County school board so
you've served as our PA
liaison um you've been an active member
when we had our meetings you were there
and a voice um to balance out the
rhetoric so I want to say and lead with
thank you for what you've done for us
and good luck to you for your future
endeavors hopefully that's just taking
naps and maybe pedicures and manicures
I'm not sure but uh I hope that's a
bright future for you thank you you're
welcome um to that end you know as we're
moving into the new beginning right
we're always having to look at what the
calendar has for the future and a couple
of months ago I spoke to y'all about
Trends and how we need to analyze what
those Trends are so I want to end uh in
2023 looking at what some of those
Trends are for
2024 in education as a whole the first
one is teacher retention that should not
be a shock to us as we continue to see
what happens across our country um
there's an annual turnover rate of
approximately 8% and that situation
becomes particularly agrave in any tital
one school where that rate easily
doubles and that's usually what happens
compensation emerges as a pivotal Factor
influencing that decision whether one
stays or goes uh usually the perceived
or the real imbalance between the input
and their compensation is what motivates
people to quit otherwise they stay by
choosing to continue to work um in some
type of additional job to maintain
status quo or in some cases it becomes
burnout where people just don't want to
do and they don't maximize who they are
and they don't maximize their
students second is online learning and
artificial intelligence something that
we all have seen we thought that the
movies of the old would show what the
future is now we're in the future and
sometimes we can't tell if it's real or
not and AI as it continues to advance
more innovation more engaging more
effective online teaching methods are
going to emerge because we always want
to adapt our students to what is out in
society and we want to give them the
edge to that so AI can help us to
customize students differences in their
learning styles their paths um as well
as their ability to progress and then
their pace which is what we want to do
individualized learning but it can also
automate administrative task so that
teachers can free up their time for more
meaningful interactions with their
students but there could also be
unintended consequences things that we
have to think about and then third the
future of Education leadership through
the role of community in
education now School leadership as you
all know plays a pivotal and crucial
role in the long-term success of any
educator particularly that the retention
of a teacher School leaders report plans
to leave their roles at literally the
same rate as a classroom teacher
Nationwide one of the things that Mr
Burton has done consistently in his role
as a school board leader is to fight for
administrators and wanting to see that
they have a stake in the greater picture
of what we do in the school division so
addressing unique challenges School
leaders face is crucial for the future
of Education because we can't see things
in segments we have to see things in
realistic whole measures so any kind of
measure that we can take to enhance the
satisfaction and sense of purpose of
anyone be it a school administrator
teacher staff bus driver cafeteria
worker increases the ability for all
people to retain regardless of
compensation as long as they're seen
they're heard and they're
respected now one of the things I do
want to end with with saying thank you
for allowing us to have just a little
bit of smile at the end of the year so I
know the 20th of December a lot of
people are already planning on what's
going to happen with their bonus and
some people already spent that bonus
before they got it but nonetheless it
ends the year on something that's
positive and that's really what we want
to be doing when we go into
2024 is maintaining being positive
impact on everyone regardless of the
role that you play and that's what we
need to look at as far as the trend for
2024 how can we positive make a
difference a positive impact in the
lives of everyone our students our staff
and our community
so again I want to say thank you for
what you continue to do to make this a
great place to learn a work for everyone
and I wish each and every one of you a
happy holiday season and again thank you
Mr Burton for what you've
done thank you thank
you okay next we have the Danville
Pennsylvania county can Association Mrs
Shephard is that right that is
correct good evening good evening I am
excited to be here my name is Mariah
Shepard I'm the executive director at
Danville Pennsylvania Cancer
Association as many of you all know in
October that was breast cancer awareness
month for many years now we've actually
received support from Dan River High
School's jroc they usually do um a
volleyball event sell shirts that sort
of thing well this year not only did we
have support from Dan River High
School's JC we were pleasantly surprised
that seven other schools also joined in
in different fundraisers to help support
damel Pennsylvania cancer so I just want
to take a moment first to just say what
damel Pennsylvania cancer is um D
pennslvania cancer was started by this
community and it's for this community
it's for individuals who are going
through Cancer Treatments unlike many
nonprofits were not income based our
only qualifications are do you live in
damn or Pennsylvania county are you
going through Cancer Treatments if so
we're here to help we help with things
that insurance doesn't cover so we help
with the mileage reimbursements to in
from cancer related appointments we help
with prescription coverage if someone
has an out-of- pocket co-pay we help
with supplies we help with hotel stays
if someone has to stay at a hotel the
night before a surgery we're here for
our clients from beginning to end
whether they're getting their initial
diagnosis they're going through their
treatments if they're ringing that Bell
of remission or if we're helping to
provide dignity in their final days
because we're not income based that also
means that we help many people within
this
community currently our client load is
about 355 individuals who live in
Danville and Pennsylvania county through
the years we've helped many teachers
administrators even students so we were
very surprised and excited when we were
able to find out that so many different
schools within the County School System
had chosen us as a fundraiser during the
month of October so I wanted to come and
say to the school board just how
meaningful it was that these schools
stepped up that these students stepped
up and then obviously they had a sponsor
teacher or if it was the administration
thems that helped encourage these
fundraisers so I want to list off all
the schools the fund raise and just talk
a little bit about their creative
fundraisers first off we we have Stony
Mill Elementary who raised
$183 through a hat day twins Springs
Elementary raised
$1,200 from a pink out day where
students could wear a pink shirt pink
hat pink clothes for a donation tunel
Middle School FFA had a costume day that
ended October and they raised
$985 tun Middle School itself on a broad
basis had a hat day earlier in the month
that raised $157
tonso High School had raised
$110 with a pink out day Dan River
Middle raised 200
$289524
60 that was through their volleyball
game their t-shir t-shirt sales and
other various activities chadam Middle
School raised $155 through a hat day and
chadam high school Beta Club raised
$2,000 through a powderpuff game in
total during the month of October
through these eight schools they were
able to raise
$1,288 and 85 cents which will go to
support our many clients our hundreds of
clients to be able to help make sure
that no matter where they are and their
treatments that we're there for them so
I just want to say thank
you thank you Miss
sheer just about every person in this
room has been touched by cancer some way
or
form and I want to um thank you for your
hard work and all y'all do it's it's
very much appreciated I
know okay next we have public input for
our 2425 school budget proposals anybody
signed up no um I believe I read the
other day that the governor is going to
release his budget around the 20th of
December um the projections were pretty
low for the state income this time but
he did commit to standing with K12
education and still supporting it pretty
heavily so we'll see I'm I'm guessing
it's going to be a long budget process
again this year like it was last year I
hope they do not wait till
September so we'll see but supposedly
the 20th we'll get the B Governor's
budget um next we have staff and
committee reports first is a report on
the ey teach program Mr
Mayu finally maybe something that will
help us a little bit for getting
teachers huh hope so hope so good
evening Mr Dolph Schoolboard members Dr
Jones staff and attendees in person and
online I'll be very brief brief in my
report you have some information s
provided to you in a memo but I just
want to speak with you briefly about the
it teach program so the reason why we're
at this point of studying this and and
looking into working through this
program is this we do recognize there is
a great interest from individuals that
are um you know interested in becoming
teachers through a career switcher
pathway um or a pair of professional a
teach raid or substitute and I've worked
my offices work with several individuals
in that regard but a barrier for many of
these individuals is the cost and the
time
um to complete a traditional appropriate
requirements for LIC you know Virginia
is probably one of the most stringent um
States in terms of completing license
requirements um but nonetheless you know
this is an opportunity for us to be able
to help as individuals so we are
continuing to seek opportunities to
recruit and higher quality instructional
staff so I would like to tell you some
facts about this program I've had the
opportunity to speak to these
individuals at several conferences so
far but it teach is actually an
alternate C certification program which
began in Texas in 2003 it Curr currently
has programs in 10 states the program
was approved by the Department of
Education in June 2023 as an alternate
pathway for lcer we must petition the U
State Board of Education to be an
approve approved to utilize this pathway
as of November 30th 2023 the state board
has approved 33 School divisions and 14
are pending approval so we would like we
see it as an economical and efficient
and timely alternative route to LIC for
individuals who hold at least a bachor
degree the cost for the individual is
approximately
$3,050 and can be completed within one
year without a significant disruption to
their work and or personal schedules
they continue to work and still complete
this so that amount of money is much um
significantly less than what would cost
them in terms of college and so forth in
time um there is no cost to the school
division all fees are paid by the to I
teach by the candidate and there are
some plans they work with in terms of
being able to pay for it and we we will
if we if we approve for this we can
probably look explore some ways to be
able to supplement that to help the
individual if they wish to teach for us
we'll look at that while enrolled in the
it teach program this is the beauty of
it the candidate if they get enrolled in
this program and they have the
bachelor's degree since since is if we
are approved as an alternate lenser
pathway they are then eligible for a
non-renewable provisional license and
can be hired as a teacher see what you
have a lot of times is that you have a
individual has a bachelor's degree
unless they meet license requirements or
any some kind of career pathway or off
pathway they cannot be hired as a
teacher we can't use public funds to pay
them as a contracted teacher unless
they're eligible for lier but if they
are an approved program then they could
be brought in they could be brought in
as a teacher put place in the contract
receive benefits vs everything um
because they're in that pathway that
program so that will be a great benefit
to us but it will be a great benefit to
them the candidate again is a for for
non-renewable provisional license can be
hir as a teacher and during those three
years they have the opportunity to
complete the program the assessments and
get the support for the classroom
experience and once they complete that
the candidate will be eligible for a
10-year renewable teaching license so
that's why I think it's a great benefit
for H County to enter in something like
this and they have a lot of different
opportunities in terms of lure in terms
of endorsement areas one of the areas
that has been a great need that we have
not had the opportuni when they were
mentioned with agriculture education as
you well know that's a very um difficult
field to um find candidates but this is
something they're going to supplement as
well so I think it's a benefit and I
like we would like to move for Dr Jones
and I spoke about it we and I've spoke
to several School divisions and have'
been very pleased with how this is
working for them so any questions about
any of this if if a person wishes to
look into this program how's the best
way for them to do it to contact you or
to go through the state department very
good question once we're approved by the
state board because we're we're I
believe we're going to be on the docket
to get this approval in December once we
have that I'm sure it te is going to
provide us some good wayte of Market
this so we'll do every way we can to
make sure this is um disseminated to any
of individuals and yes I would say
encourage them to contact our officers
because they'll work directly through us
okay any other
questions anybody else have any
questions hopefully it'll help some of
this teacher shortage I hope so I hope
thank you very much thank you Mr Mayu um
next we have a report from the school
board building committee Mr Henderson is
Chairman thank you chairman dos
um as you know the board has uh agreed
to support the freedom of choice it is a
committee uh made up of people uh who
wish to
recognize students in the integration
era of
1964-65 and
68-69 I think we had Norths side and
Southside high schools at that
particular time and so so we're going to
support them they're going
to buy some plaques provide uh
everything that's needed it's not going
to cost the school system anything uh
other than we're going to uh give them
the space to have their presentations at
the four high schools I encourage you to
look uh item 83 for the board members uh
they're going to be four uh four
unveiling ceremon
on February the 3rd at um 9:30 at
Greta February the
3D at uh 1:30 at
tun February the 17th at 9:30 at Dan
River and February the 17th at 1:30 at
chadam Mark you might want to make a
note of that because they have asked and
uh for any of the board members that can
be present uh to do so but they um
applied for and received a $25,000 Grant
uh and it's going to take 25,000 to put
the program on buy the plaques and
Supply the meals and everything for the
for the four ceremonies so um I
think Mr Moon did did they invite the
public to this yes I think I think it
did so if you if you were if you
attended uh either one of these four
high
schools uh during that era and you'd
like to attend the ceremony feel free to
do so February the 3rd February the 17th
we'll give you another update next month
in case anybody would like to U attend
those ceremonies I think it's uh very
rewarding and I appreciate the committee
who started this uh idea and it's going
to going to be really revealing and I'm
I'm glad that we're a part of it thank
you thank you Mr Mr Anderson does
anybody have any questions I just had
your down one of the things two of the
things they was had with having it in
February they was looking at it you know
it correlated with black history month
but also the 60th anniversary of Brown
versus the Board of Education so I think
that was important because I had
mentioned to him you know about talking
to wct I think Dr Jones mentioned a lady
at one of the stations in Rono to maybe
see if they could get some TV coverage
and all the other thing with the dates
of February the 3D they have a the if
it's if it rains it out or snows it out
the next week will be the alternative
date on both both of those
times one other thing I'd just like to
mention that came out of the meeting um
we also come up with you know funding
for the school projects and you know
Miss vandery was there one of the things
I would ask and I like to ask if Miss
Worley would follow up with them was the
money that had already come in if we're
not using it today look at investing it
so we do get some additional interest
with treasures being in about five and a
qu% range at this time and she said she
would talk to I think it's Mr what
shorter the treasurer of the county so
I'll see if she would follow up and give
us a report on if they would be able to
get that worked out and that was one of
the other sidewall pieces out of the
building committee
report okay
anyone else could I ask Miss Hancock to
please remind me in
February would you make a note to send
me a notice okay I graduated the year
before this before that started so okay
I'm old here everybody here right anyone
else I know the committee's worked awful
hard on this we met met with them
several times it's been ongoing for
probably better than a year I think that
they've been working on it so I'm I'm
glad to see they back about to get it
there does anybody have any questions on
the remaining death reports it's five of
them
anybody if there's no questions on those
we'll move on to the superintendent's
report Mr Mr Doo members I'd like to
share some good news about our schools
we've had a lot of good opportunities
this evening to see our our students U
and this time I'd like to recognize a
staff member who most recently um saved
a child's life in the classroom and and
would like to ask the board I if they
would wish to have this recognize this
teacher it's Mrs Lauren folks she's a
teacher at Kentuck Elementary School she
had a student in her classroom with a
water bottle as we allow children now to
have and the child swallowed swallowed
the um the top and choked on the top and
she used the H maneuver to save the
child so like to ask if the board would
wish to have her come to a board meeting
and recognize her okay we'll work with
uh Mrs Dawson the principal of Kentuck
and see if we can have her at one of the
later
meetings
also next items I have are things that
our schools are doing to give back
appreciate the Cancer Society being here
um or the damville cancer Pennsylvania
Cancer Association to be here this
evening but we have just gone through
our United Way uh drive for division
appreciate Mr hariston and the school
and staff for donating we've been doing
this since the 90s when jery Webb was
here Dr Webb began this U and we began
so each year we contribute to the United
Way we assist the Fraternal Order of
Eagles uh our support services
department does that delivering
Thanksgiving uh turkeys and dinners to
to to community members and then they
will turn back around in Christmas and
work with the Eagles to deliver
Christmas presents to needy
families um we had our FFA uh presidents
participate with Mrs Angela Ry our
director of CTE at the Tyson's ribbon
cutting a week or so
ago we have our bands participating in
Christmas
parades we just have numerous things and
I I only mention a a couple things this
evening but they're many things going on
in our schools that we greatly
appreciate our schools and giving back
and our kids and giving back so uh just
appreciate the the thought that that our
staff has for others and serving others
Dr Hayworth this time I'd like to ask if
she could come forward and give you all
an update on Rachel's Challenge if you
recall we had Rachel's Challenge come in
earlier they did excellent programs with
our students and she's going to provide
an update about what's next yes sir
thank you Dr Jones and good evening to
all uh January 16th through January 19th
Rachel's Challenge will return to of any
County Schools to facilitate their
Premier Chain Reaction day of course
inspired by The Life and Legacy of
Rachel Scott the first victim of the
1999 Coline high school shooting the
Chain Reaction day is a culminating
event embodying the principles of
Rachel's Challenge character building
empathy resilience and goal setting and
the value in paying kindness forward
through Visual Pres presentations
Hands-On activities and small group
discussion The Chain Reaction day helps
build student capacity to make a
positive impact in their school culture
increasing awareness of bullying
Dynamics and impact strengthening
emotional intelligence and advocating
for kindness each High School will hold
their all day Chain Reaction event at
the STEM Academy up to 80 students will
be invited along with two Rachel's
Challenge facilitators and 20 super
supervising adults including school and
central office staff Community agencies
and private providers United around a
common goal we hope to create a shared
vision of a safe and supportive School
climate setting off of course that Chain
Reaction a positive social and emotional
growth if you have questions about the
Chain Reaction day or if you're
interested in being a part of the event
please do not hesitate to contact myself
or your high school principal can also
update you on some information there
thank you so
much thank you
drymore also if you recall back during
the summer we had uh representatives
from the dairy Association come to the
school board and ask about placing milk
dispensers in a school across the county
last week we had the first dispenser
opened up at Chad at Gram Middle
School uh they serve chocolate milk and
whole milk white milk one 1% milk I'm
sorry 1% white milk U but the students
uh just it was outstanding I think the
students really received it well I think
they're looking at the possibility of
looking at other middle schools to have
these in so that may be coming your way
u in the near future also you have a
pencil from the the dairy Association at
your places this afternoon or this
evening um we had a report about all
district man uh and students who have
made the all District B from danam River
High School Annabella tuck four chair
saxophone gr the high school Annie
Martin of eighth chair flute for the
concert band of chattam High School
Savannah Wilkinson first chair Piccolo
concert band Lincoln in first year E
flat clarinet symphonic band Davis in
first year baritone symphonic band Lewin
kendris fourth chair tuba symphonic band
the all district event will be held
February the 2nd and 3rd at Liberty
University in Lynchburg with a concert
St starting at 4 o'clock on February the
3 and then we had two students who have
qualified to aition for the alt State
band and and that will be held in
Harrisonburg on February the 24th and
those students are Lincoln an and Davis
ins from chadam high school so
congratulations to those
students also to provide an update on
the sales tax referendum at this time
there had for the first three months of
collection July August and
September uh that fund is at
$86,900 vest FES at all 10 elementary
schools and four middle schools uh to
include attack resistant film on all
interest Way
Glass um that's going to cost about $2.5
million also HVAC and window
replacements will be made at Stony Mill
Elementary School this summer that's a
cost of about $7.4 million of that
$900,000 from the sales tax referendum
funds will go to pay for that the
remaining balance will be funded
from school construction assistance
program are scap Grant funds CarX funds
and some carryover money there then the
second priority items to be completed in
25 the summer of 25 are the HVAC and
window replacements for Southside
Elementary and Union Hall elementary
schools and a 12 room addition at
Kentuck Elementary School the estimated
cost for these three projects is $18
million uh the sales tax referendum
funds at Pennsylvania County Schools
we've applied for additional scap grant
funding and we're hoping we're thinking
that we may receive up to $5.4 million
uh to offset that cost of that $18
million cost
there like to provide an update
regarding Middle School sports we've
complet completed the volleyball season
and we are well into the basketball
season I provided a a table of games uh
for volley ball We we played at at at
chattam middle school we played 10 games
we had 13 players on the team in
basketball we have 13 games scheduled we
have 15 players Dan River Middle School
volleyball scheduled 16 games 14 players
basketball we have 22 games scheduled
with 18 players greton Middle School
volleyball nine games with 10 players
basketball 13 games with 16 players
and tons Middle School volleyball 12
games with 12 players and basketball 12
games with 16 players to provide an
update
there there's information on my agenda
items in my section regarding the vsba
conferences please contact M Mrs Hancock
if you're interested in attending those
conferences and any questions for me
this
evening okay if none that all compl that
completes my report yes just one I don't
know if you mentioned how did your trip
to Washington
go uh it went well blue schools yes it
went well uh if you recall uh Southside
Elementary School and Union Hall
Elementary School uh were recognized the
National Blue RI conference in
Washington DC um Dr hackworth was able
to attend because of an a family member
had passed away but Mrs uh mayew
attended
as well as Miss zond and Mrs Williamson
from Union Hall um just outstanding we
were there with over 300 other schools
Across the
Nation
um the speakers were
outstanding the the recognition was it
was just very well done and and it it
just it shows the good things happening
in in K12
education across
ation anyone else Dr Jones yes okay
there's no unfinished business we'll
move on to new business first is a
revision of school board policy
JPC I'm GNA ask that we approve this on
the first reading instead of having two
we need to approve this one right away
do I have a motion I make Mo second any
discussion on it roll call please Mr
Burton hi Mr Henderson hi M Mr Ms yes Mr
Moon Mr Mr that okay second is a request
for new dual enrollment courses I
believe it was three right yep three
courses to be added um do I have a
motion to approve
that so move second any discussion on
the dual enrollment roll call please Mr
Burton I Mr Henderson marck Mr Ms yes Mr
Moon Mr D Mr ABS uh next is a
declaration of surplus property was some
old vehicles that I think they going to
get rid of through the the government
website that we've been using for the
last few years correct have a motion to
declare them Surplus I make a motion
second any discussion roll call please
Mr Burton hi Mr Henderson hi M Mar hi Mr
Mills yes Mr Moon hi Mr hi Mr V Next is
a vhsl required CPR AED training for
coaches help me Dr Jones I believe our
our employee coaches already get it and
this is going to be for volunteer
coaches to have to take it right yes sir
so I need your approval to for the so
that the volunteer coaches can take it
so move okay
all
coach
teachers teachers we give our teachers
this train okay but if they so it's our
coach is I coach
okay thank you Miss cig for
straightening that out um so I have a
motion in second so roll call please Mr
Burton hi Mr Henderson hi M Mar hi Mr Ms
yes Mr Moon Mr dos Mr F next is a
resolution to dispose of surplus
property located off of Route 40 West in
the Gretna District it's about one
acre and it's indeed book 68 page
427 and approve it this approval will be
of a quick claim deed I make a motion
second any discussion roll call please
Mr Burton hi Mr Henderson hi M Mar hi Mr
Ms yes Mr Moon Mr do
Mr and we have a request for to use the
schools in a special election if anybody
has noticed Mr Adams is stepping aside
from the delegate and it's going to be a
special election on January the 9th Dr
Jones can we do that not all of the
election districts right it it's not
it's going to affect Twin Springs Union
Hall gret High gret l chattam l Mount
Ary Stony Mill and Brosville we'd like
to have it have school in session that
day uh on the 9th we come back on the
8th then election is the next day so I
we've talked we think we can handle it
we'll just have to do some shuffling we
think we we we be able to handle it uh
that day it's probably going to be a
lighter
turnout yeah I can't it it's not like a
regular general election when it's a lot
of people running this is going to be
special election for one one seat yes
sir um so do I have a motion we approve
that I make a motion we
approve second okay I just asked Dr
Jones to make sure that security for
those schools is in place with the
sheriff's department yes sir a roll call
please Mr Burton I Mr Henderson i m Mary
Mr Ms yes Mr Moon Mr
Mr all
right we're going to if I can get all
the board members to go down to the
front
please
recognition
as I stay at the beginning of the
meeting Mr Burton has served 29 and a
half years according to miss Hancock so
I know it's perfect Mr B we want to
thank you for all your years of
service um we we hate to see you go I
know you've been around longer than I
have and I've been around a long time
but we do appreciate all your years of
service and what you've done for
Pennsylvania County Schools um I know
you've said many many times it's it's
the employees of the school system and
it's not the board but the board does
give direction and I do appreciate all
that you have done and um I got Miss
Hancock's going to read a few bullet
points of what's happened in your few
years of doing
this this is a special tribute to Samuel
Burton most serious Research indicates
that longevity of service is positively
correlated to the successful achievement
of goals this is amply true in your case
Mr Burton when you retire from on the
pania County school board on December 31
2023 after 29 and one half years of
service
354 regular and numerous other called
meetings serving with another 11 members
earlier in your career and with six
others in recent years your leadership
on the board has always been construed
as being wise and valuable in fulfilling
the objectives and goals of the district
during tender tenure school districts in
Virginia have been evaluated to assure
competence in an academic achievement of
students and through your guidance and
Direction on the board Pennsylvania
County Schools have meritoriously
succeeded in their
performance other noteworthy
accomplishments on your watch include
the construction of twins Springs
Elementary School and Greta Elementary
School the construction of the four new
middle schools the renovation of
broswell elementary school and chattam
Elementary School and the renovation of
the four high schools during the co era
you and the board provided guidance and
Direction such that the students of
Pennsylvania County Schools received
much in-person learning and the students
have benefited from this strong decision
during your years the School Division
implemented the Virginia standards of
learning and the assessments that
measure student achievement and through
the board's guidance all of the schools
in the division are fully accredited and
the division so scores have been well
above State averages in addition under
your leadership the School Division has
had five schools recognized as National
Blue Ribbon Schools and the division
developed The Graduate of Merit program
that has recognized over 2,000 seniors
during this time the Pennsylvania Career
and Technical Center has been recognized
for its exemplary programs and as an
integral part of the economic develop
development Resurgence taking place in
our area you have always been a strong
proponent of maintaining high
expectations knowing that students and
staff will rise to meet those
challenges your light has brightly Shone
over the landscape of the penssylvania
County schools and now upon your
retirement your legy will live on over
the years as a result of your strong and
effective leadership during the 29 and
half years on the school board all who
know you congratulate you on your
service to the growth and development of
Pennsylvania County Schools a great
place to learn and
[Applause]
work just burn here's a small token you
got your desk the last time but if
you'll open that up take a look at
item many years ago is the uh they give
you a desktop when you retire from here
and I've already got one that's what he
was talking about but it's an old school
desktop for the ink
well and and uh I'm very proud that I
think I got the last original desktop
now they have make some so I do have
that very proud of displayed in my
office this goes on your
desktop
spe
would anyone like to speak anyone like
to say
anything I recall Mr Burton when I was
coaching baseball at chadam high school
and as a JB coach um you know new
teacher and a Schoolboard member shows
up at practice you kind of wonder why
he's there you know have I done
something wrong come to find out his his
son was playing on the varsity team that
year I was coaching JV I didn't know I
didn't know his son at the time but Mr
Burton's the type of guy who he stood
out you could you recognized him there
just a presence about Mr Burton and I I
felt that when I was um a teacher a
coach um at chadam high school but also
as I came up through the ranks um as
principal and then on as as a director
and assistant superintendent now
superintendent you just feel you have
good support um you feel that if there's
an issue U you know he's going to he's
going to speak with you privately and
then he's going to let you handle it um
and then I always would always get back
with him and he'd you know he'd never
really tell you what never tell you what
he thought you should do he just will
give it to you and then you report back
to him so just appreciate his leadership
and um friendship over the years and I
I've just been um kind of watching just
children as they they've grown and been
students and now adults and now he's got
grandchildren and they just just it's
been good good to see his family
so we're gonna miss you m Mr Burton
we're GNA miss
you one thing that really amazes me
about him I don't think he has a
photographic mind but he's got the
memory like an
elephant uh you could I've just noticed
that there's been times where you might
29 and A2 years ago you attended a
meeting something happened and you still
remember it you still can recall things
so that is in itself is a testament to
the knowledge and the wisdom that he has
yes we're going to miss him he's
extremely knowledgeable and uh it's it's
going to it's going to be a while for us
to um get someone as in as is
intelligent as far as policies and
everything policies that that uh that we
have but thank you for your time thank
you for 292 years of good
service I graduated in uh in
2000 about six months
ago I was looking through one of my old
drawers and I found my
diploma so I dusted it off and opened it
up and read it and it said tonso High
School class of 2000 principal Hattie
Harriston superintendent Jerry web and
School board chairman Samuel
Burton well fast forward about 20 years
into the future and I decided myself to
run for the school
board I didn't know what to expect I
didn't know any board members and samel
was the first person I met that was on
the board and I can immediately tell how
much he cared about the staff and
especially the
students and I can say that about each
each board member we all really care
about the students and what's best for
them but the thing about it is we're not
in the schools every day and we don't
see these students after they graduate
so we really don't see exactly how what
we do affects their future now my my
point is Sammy after all your years on
the board all the things you've done the
policies you helped put into place the
advice you've given to students at
disciplinary meetings and other times
you'll never know this side of Heaven
how how much of an impact you've had on
these kids' lives and so as one of them
on behalf of all the students that have
been through pittsb County schools these
last 29 years thank you for your service
for all you've done and I I've really
enjoyed working with these past four
years and and you'll be missed and
things will not be the same without
you i' just like to thank Mr Burton for
the time that he's been here I'm
finishing up my 20 24th year this month
and he's been here I think 20 of the 24
because you was out one four years so
I've always enjoyed working with him
he's very like you been mentioned very
solid good memory good recall and want
to speak stick to Basics if we made a
budget decision uh with the budget to
stay with what we'd already budgeted not
be going out changing things doing a
budget year just because U you know felt
like we could and and I have a lot of
respect and have spoken very many times
on questions and he's called me on
questions and I appreciate that greatly
and he's also when you talk about the 29
years he's the only ones left over the
appointed School Board erl all the rest
of us come in under the elected School
Board ER so he's one of the kind that's
finishing up his tour with his school
board and I appreciate everything you've
done Mr Burton for us
thank you Mr Burton for your service to
the schools to the students we wish you
the best of luck with your future
endeavors Mr Burton again thank you wish
you the best your family hope you have a
Merry Christmas and good luck to you
whatever you decide to
do
[Applause]
yeah
before I talk about me
leaving
um as I've done many times in the past
I want to tell you some good things that
little things that have always been a
lot to
me last week my wife and I went to a
middle school band
concert Middle School band
concert I remember going to those things
and would take sixth seventh and eighth
to make a band and they didn't sound
very
well well this one was held at high
school they had a sixth grade band
seventh grade eighth grade each band had
20 more students in it and the
auditorium was
full I never seen that before but the
response from the
audience and the enjoyment they gave to
students was better than anything
anybody aelf band director teacher
parent could tell their
students that's the kind of
change that I see in the school
system I want to take a little time to
share some history Mr Moon alluded to it
in fact U some things that I have seen
that Miss Hancock has experienced we're
probably the only two in the room have
done
that our first game on the board in
1990 there were 12
members they were
appointed things were much different
then and I say these things not that
I've done anything except had the great
Fortune to work with some good
people but the board really wasn't very
active um and it's just the way the
things were done then and I look back
and I see them differently than I did
then but we
didn't have what you call today chain of
command it was supposed to be but if a
staff member had something they wanted
lot of time they' just go to a
Schoolboard member or director to the
superintendent and bypass the people in
the buildings we didn't have a budget
process we'd show up and the
superintendent was telling well we
didn't get much money but don't think we
can cutting as
maintenance that was a terrible system
it took several years to recognize that
it's somewhere in the mid
90s the board made the decisions that
whatever we going to do it's going to be
for the benefit of the whole school
division or we're not going to do it
before that time and occasionally even
after that some board members would get
together and decide that a their school
needed something and as I look back
quite often there was things that they
thought they needed or a staff member
told them they needed but we never asked
the schools what do you need to help
improve the school
system so after we that decision those
decisions were made in the 990s that we
quit work worrying about things we
couldn't do and work on things we could
when real changes began to come
about
now everybody in this school division
works for the
superintendent and the superintendent
works for the school board but the
school board as the whole that's not the
way it operated back then if you don't
have your hand of command you don't have
self- accountability and you don't uh
know where your finance and budget come
from you can't be very
effective and I'm saying these things
because you never want to go back to
that the staff is the reason that this
system has done so
well sometimes I think the board and
we've hired three great
superintendents we need to just get out
of the way give them the goals and let
them show us how to get there and then
approve or disapprove but so often
uh we think that we see things that the
other that maybe superintendent doesn't
see but he's the only one can see the
whole division none of us
can I
have enjoyed most all my
time I have uh would not hesitate to do
it again I think Mr Shields is going to
enjoy this and he's going to be very U
very active more so than I am at getting
to my
age I look at things differently now and
one of the things that's most important
to me is that I want to be a better man
tomorrow than I am
today that's what I wanted a School
Division I want to be a better school
division tomorrow than it is today one
of the things we did recently that I've
never been liked and I've always felt
like if you don't like policy you change
it you don't change it in the middle you
don't change it on brookly you find out
why you're doing it that way we changed
our grading scale from a seven to a
10 uh don't fully understand that and it
took my wife to remind me that when our
children were in school in this division
we were on a 10-point grading
scale and I never heard anybody in our
discussion to ask why did we leave it
before and going back now I did hear
that you know at least we on level
ground with everybody else I don't like
that this is my personal opinion I want
us to be better
and back in the 80s throughout the state
where we look down is a lower class
school
revision that's certainly
changed I don't know if any school of
bus that's anywhere around us that would
not like to have the things that we have
the scores that we have the attendance
the attend attendance we have the uh
shud discipline that we have and one of
the things that always impresses me and
still amazes me when the superintendent
meets with students at the end of the
year the three things they always want
is more discipline more
rigor and U more rigor more discipline I
can't think all that third one but more
rigor and more discipline is with the
things that they
want um so I've been very happy and very
proud of the things we have accomplished
together there no one individual and
it's never been it's never been to me
about the individual has been about the
division I am going to miss you
folks I thank you for everything it's
been honor and
pleasure thank you
Mr anyone
else not I'll entertain a motion to
adjourn I make a motion
tojn second roll call please Mr Burton
hi Mr Henderson hi M marck hi Mr Ms yes
Mr Moon hi Mr D hi I hope everybody has
a very Merry Christmas I hope you get
good rest and come back for the second
half of this year and I hope it's as
good as the first half's been Merry
Christmas to
everyone